Objectstore backup (#107)
Linuxfabrik/lfops: roles/objectstore_backup/README.md

# Ansible Role linuxfabrik.lfops.objectstore_backup

> This role configures a backup service/timer for an objectstore to objectstore backup using the  'MinIO' client `mc`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This role configures a backup service/timer for an objectstore to objectstore backup using the 'MinIO' client `mc`.
```

Runs on

> * Rocky Linux release 8.7

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Rocky 8
```

## Mandatory Requirements

* Install the `MinIO` binary. This can be done using the [linuxfabrik.lfops.minio_client](https://github.com/Linuxfabrik/lfops/tree/main/roles/minio_client) role.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use the [Objectstore Backup Playbook](https://github.com/Linuxfabrik/lfops/blob/main/playbooks/objectstore_backup.yml), this is automatically done for you.

```

## Optional Requirements

> * A destination bucket will be created when it doesn't exist.

Reviewer: mention this in the variable description below, not needed here

## Tags

| Tag                   | What it does                                 |
| ---                   | ------------                                 |

> | `objectstore_backup`  | Install objectstore_backup                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `objectstore_backup`  | Installs and configures the objectstore backup                 |
```

## Mandatory Role Variables

| Variable | Description |
| -------- | ----------- |

> | `objectstore_backup__source_access_key` | S3 and Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) Access Key for the source objectstore |

Reviewer: sort the variables alphabetically, also in the example below

| `objectstore_backup__source_secret_key` | S3 and Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) Access Secret for the source objectstore |
| `objectstore_backup__destination_access_key` | S3 and Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) Access Key for the destination objectstore |
| `objectstore_backup__destination_secret_key` | S3 and Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) Access Secret for the destination objectstore |

Example:
```yaml
# mandatory

> objectstore_backup__source_access_key: 'accessssssssssssssssssssssssssss'

Reviewer: use `linuxfabrik` as the placeholder

objectstore_backup__source_secret_key: 'secrettttttttttttttttttttttttttt'
objectstore_backup__destination_access_key: 'accessssssssssssssssssssssssssss'
objectstore_backup__destination_secret_key: 'secrettttttttttttttttttttttttttt'
```

## Optional Role Variables

|            Variable                    | Description | Default Value |

> | -------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |

Reviewer: also sort the table alphabetically

> | `objectstore_backup__oncalendar`         | `systemd` calendar event formatted point(s) in time(See: [https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/systemd.time.html#Calendar Events](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/systemd.time.html#Calendar%20Events)) when the backup(s) should occur. | `Sun *-*-* 19:00:00`                       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `objectstore_backup__oncalendar`         | The `OnCalendar` definition for when the backup should occur. Have a look at `man systemd.time(7)` for the format. | `Sun *-*-* 19:00:00`                       |
```

> | `objectstore_backup__source_name`        | A name for the source objectstore.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | `swisscloud`                               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `objectstore_backup__source_name`        | A unique name (alias) for the source objectstore.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | `swisscloud`                               |
```

> | `objectstore_backup__source_url`         | A URL that identifies a host and port as the entry point for the source S3 objectstore web service.                                                                                                                                                                   | `https://s3.pub1.infomaniak.cloud`         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `objectstore_backup__source_url`         | The URL that identifies a host and port as the entry point for the source S3 objectstore web service.                                                                                                                                                                   | `https://s3.pub1.infomaniak.cloud`         |
```

> | `objectstore_backup__source_bucket`      | The name of the bucket to be backed-up at the source objectstore                                                                                                                                                                                                      | `{{ansible_nodename}}`                     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `objectstore_backup__source_bucket`      | The name of the bucket to be backed-up from the source objectstore                                                                                                                                                                                                      | `{{ansible_nodename}}`                     |
```

> | `objectstore_backup__destination_name`  | A name for the destination objectstore.                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | `swissbackup`                              |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `objectstore_backup__destination_name`  | A unique name (alias) for the destination objectstore.                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | `swissbackup`                              |
```

> | `objectstore_backup__destination_url`   | A URL that identifies a host and port as the entry point for the destination S3 objectstore web service.                                                                                                                                                              | `https://s3.swiss-backup03.infomaniak.com` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `objectstore_backup__destination_url`   | The URL that identifies a host and port as the entry point for the destination S3 objectstore web service.                                                                                                                                                              | `https://s3.swiss-backup03.infomaniak.com` |
```

| `objectstore_backup__destination_bucket` | The name of the bucket to be backed-up to at the destination objectstore                                                                                                                                                                                              | `{{ansible_nodename}}`                     |

Example:
```yaml
# optional

> objectstore_backup__oncalendar: 'Sun *-*-* 19:00:00'

Reviewer: also sort alphabetically

objectstore_backup__source_name: 'swisscloud'
objectstore_backup__source_url: 'https://s3.pub1.infomaniak.cloud'

> objectstore_backup__source_bucket: '{{ansible_nodename}}'

Reviewer: add whitespace in the brackets, looks nicer :) also in the defaults
